
Accessible-Arch-CLI-2.1-beta

Root password:  root

Ordinary User:
Name:     pi
Password: raspberry

Hostname: alarmpi

Time-zone: Europe/London (GMT)
Keyboard: UK

sshd: Running
ntpd: Running

This is the latest version of our accessible Arch Linux for the Raspberry Pi.

Please note that if you have followed some of the other images we have released 
before, the names have varied.

Because I am about to start releasing a variety of images I have decided to 
standardise the names and use a coherent and constant naming scheme.

So accessible-arch-CLI means what?

Well, of course it's Arch Linux, and it has some accessibility tools installed.  
And the CLI bit is because this image is purely command-line and text console 
based.  In other words it has no accessible GUI.

What's Installed

There are three major accessibility tools installed on this image.  These are:

1.  The SpeakUp! console-mode screen-reader.  Using the eSpeak speech 
synthesiser it gives access to the environment very quickly, including letting 
you hear some of the boot messages and gives you a talking login prompt.

2.  Emacspeak, which is worthy of it's own description of 'The Complete Audio 
Desktop'.  A completely accessible extension to the world of Emacs.

3.  brltty, a Braille display driver.

Notes:

SpeakUp!

To enter SpeakUp help, press caps lock plus F1, use the arrow keys to scroll up 
and down the screen and exit the help by pressing the space bar.

You can save settings at any time by typing this at the command-line:

speakupconf save

And load them again with:

speakupconf load

Note that code has been added to the .bashrc file in the home directory of the 
'pi' user to load saved SpeakUp settings at login.

Emacspeak

Much too big a subject for this file.  To launch Emacspeak, type:

emacspeak

At the command-line and press enter.  Just before you press enter, press the 
SysRq key, which is the left-most key above the insert key, which is itself the 
top-left key of the 'six-pack' of keys above the arrow keys on a standard 
keyboard.

Doing so will kill SpeakUp so that you do not get two voices inside Emacspeak.  
Press SysRq again when you exit Emacspeak.

brltty

This has not been configured because so few people have a Braill display.  There 
is tons of documentation online.

Note that it is probably not a good idea to try to drive a Braille display 
directly from a USB port on the Pi, but to use a powered USB hub, to reduce the 
risks associated with excessive current loads on the Pi.

Expanding the root file-system

To expand the root file-system to fill your memory card, two scripts which can 
be found in the home directory of user 'pi'.

These are:

expand-arch-rootfs-2.0.sh
resize-arch-rootfs-2.0.sh

This is a process which has a number of steps:

1.  Run the first script:

sudo ./expand-arch-rootfs-2.0.sh

This will delete and re-create the root partition.  I know that sounds alarming 
but the files will not disappear.

2.  Now reboot:

sudo reboot

3.  When the Pi comes back and you have logged in, run the second script:

sudo resize-arch-rootfs-2.0.sh

It is a good idea to leave this a few minutes to make sure it has completed 
before you reboot again.

4.  Check the new size with:

df -h

You should see that the root file-system has expanded to just a bit smaller than 
the size of your SD card.

A little space is left at the end.  This ensures that if 'dd' is used on another 
Linux machine to back up the card at any time, the save operation will run off 
the end of the root partition before it completes.  This prevents the root 
partition being 'clipped' at the end and making a card unbootable if a saved 
image is written back to a card.

Once the two scripts have been used in this way they can be deleted.

More information

It is possible the version of this file on the downloads page of the web site 
will be more up to date than this one.  It can be found at:

http://www.raspberryvi.org/Downloads/

To see more stuff about the accessibility tools installed, either use Google, or 
browse our wiki at:

http://www.raspberryvi.org/wiki/

Please regard this work in the spirit of Open Source.  That of course means that 
no guarantee of fitness for purpose is either given or implied.  And the authors 
and developers of the Raspberry VI community can not be held responsible for any 
loss of data, or damage to property or personnel resulting from the use of this 
content.

The Raspberry VI community email list and web site, the views expressed therein 
and the tools and information provided and expressed by us are not connected 
with or endorsed 
by the Raspberry Pi Foundation.

I have received very significant help with this work from Rill, a member of the 
email list and a total Linux-head.

Visit:

http://www.raspberryvi.org/

from where you can join our list and find more stuff about the Pi and 
accessibility.

Mike Ray <mike@raspberryvi.org>







